doc/otel_usage.md, before:

# Observability, Trace, Metric

## Configuration
For use observability, trace or metric you need to configure it.  

In below, you can find sample code to configure Otel.

```go
package main

import (
	"sync"
	"github.com/ormushq/ormus/adapter/otela"
)

var cfg = otela.Config{
	Endpoint:           "otel_collector:4317",
	ServiceName:        "test",
	EnableMetricExpose: true,
	MetricExposePath:   "metrics",
	MetricExposePort:   8081,
	Exporter:           otela.ExporterGrpc,
}

func main()  {
	wg := &sync.WaitGroup{}
	done := make(chan bool)

	err := otela.Configure(wg, done, cfg)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
}

```

### Specification
#### Endpoint
The endpoint of otel collector
#### ServiceName
The current service name
#### EnableMetricExpose
If this service need to expose default metrics to collect them in prometheus set this to `true`
#### MetricExposePath
If `EnableMetricExpose` is `true`, the path to expose metrics defined in the `MetricExposePath
#### MetricExposePort
If `EnableMetricExpose` is `true`, the port to expose metrics defined in the `MetricExposePort
#### Exporter
This used for configure exporter mod. Currently two mode supported: `otela.ExporterGrpc`,`otela.ExporterConsole`


## Observability/Trace

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"github.com/ormushq/ormus/adapter/otela"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/attribute"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)

func main() {
	tracer := otela.NewTracer("test-tracer")
	ctx, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "main", trace.WithAttributes(
		attribute.String("detail", "boot-application-trace"),
	))
	span.AddEvent("processed-events-channel-opened")
}
```
You can add more event. after done work you can close span
```go
span.End()
```
If you want to trace in other packages you pass context to it and create new span with this context.

There is two function in `otela` package to get carrier from context (`otela.GetCarrierFromContext`) and convert carrier to the context (`otela.GetContextFromCarrier`).
These methods used when you want to pass current span to another process as parent span.(multi service trace)

## Metrics

For metric you can use this:
```go
meter := otel.Meter("test-meter")
counter, _ := meter.Float64Counter("test_counter")
counter.Add(context.Background(), 1)
```

There is two helper method: `otela.AddFloat64Counter` and `otela.IncrementFloat64Counter` 

## Trace helper

### `GetCarrierFromContext(ctx context.Context) map[string]string`
For extract carrier from context use this method. 
This method is useful when you want pass tracer id between services that in separate binaries and they use eventing or messaging design pattern.
You can simply in client service set tracerId with this value and pass it to host and with below function generate context with this value and use it in host service.

### `GetContextFromCarrier(carrier map[string]string) context.Context`
As mention in top you can use this method to convert tracer id to context.

## Trace builder

``go
TraceBuilder(packageName, functionName string, options ...TracerOptions) (context.Context, trace.Span)
``
Use this method for easy use of OTEL collector. just like this:
```go
ctx, span := otela.TraceBuilder("package name", "Function name",
    TracerOptions...),
)
```
There is some helper function for generate TraceOption like :
- `WithCarrier(carrier map[string]string) TracerOptions`
- `WithContext(ctx context.Context) TracerOptions`
- `WithTracerOptions(options ...trace.TracerOption) TracerOptions`
- `WithSpanOptions(options ...trace.SpanStartOption) TracerOptions`
- `WithSpanOptionAttributes(attributes ...attribute.KeyValue) TracerOptions`



## Log echo requests

In delivery layer you can register the otela log as below:

```go
    s.Router.Use(middleware.RequestLoggerWithConfig(middleware.RequestLoggerConfig{
		LogURI:           true,
		LogStatus:        true,
		LogHost:          true,
		LogRemoteIP:      true,
		LogRequestID:     true,
		LogMethod:        true,
		LogContentLength: true,
		LogResponseSize:  true,
		LogLatency:       true,
		LogError:         true,
		LogProtocol:      true,
		LogValuesFunc:    otela.EchoRequestLoggerLogValuesFunc("httpserver", "Serve"),
	}))
```
Then it start span on request and inject trace id to the context, you can continue to append spans to the tracer like below:

```go
package statushandler

import (
	"github.com/ormushq/ormus/adapter/otela"
	"github.com/labstack/echo/v4"
)


    func (h Handler) healthCheck(c echo.Context) error {

        // You can pass newCtx to service for set this span as parent of spans that start in services 
        newCtx, span := otela.TraceBuilder("statushandler", "status",
        otela.WithContext(ctx.Request().Context()),
        )
        defer span.End()
        
        span.AddEvent("Starting status handler")
        // Do something
        span.AddEvent("Ending status handler")
		
        ...
    }
        
```

Commit message:

fix(ormus): update otel usage document.

doc/otel_usage.md, after:

# Observability, Trace, Metric

## Configuration
For use observability, trace or metric you need to configure it.  

In below, you can find sample code to configure Otel.

```go
package main

import (
	"sync"
	"github.com/ormushq/ormus/adapter/otela"
)

var cfg = otela.Config{
	Endpoint:           "otel_collector:4317",
	ServiceName:        "test",
	EnableMetricExpose: true,
	MetricExposePath:   "metrics",
	MetricExposePort:   8081,
	Exporter:           otela.ExporterGrpc,
}

func main()  {
	wg := &sync.WaitGroup{}
	done := make(chan bool)

	err := otela.Configure(wg, done, cfg)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
}

```

### Specification
#### Endpoint
The endpoint of otel collector
#### ServiceName
The current service name
#### EnableMetricExpose
If this service need to expose default metrics to collect them in prometheus set this to `true`
#### MetricExposePath
If `EnableMetricExpose` is `true`, the path to expose metrics defined in the `MetricExposePath
#### MetricExposePort
If `EnableMetricExpose` is `true`, the port to expose metrics defined in the `MetricExposePort
#### Exporter
This used for configure exporter mod. Currently two mode supported: `otela.ExporterGrpc`,`otela.ExporterConsole`


## Observability/Trace

```go
package main

import (
	"context"
	"github.com/ormushq/ormus/adapter/otela"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/attribute"
	"go.opentelemetry.io/otel/trace"
)

func main() {
	tracer := otela.NewTracer("test-tracer")
	ctx, span := tracer.Start(context.Background(), "main", trace.WithAttributes(
		attribute.String("detail", "boot-application-trace"),
	))
	span.AddEvent("processed-events-channel-opened")
}
```
You can add more event. after done work you can close span
```go
span.End()
```
If you want to trace in other packages you pass context to it and create new span with this context.

There is two function in `otela` package to get carrier from context (`otela.GetCarrierFromContext`) and convert carrier to the context (`otela.GetContextFromCarrier`).
These methods used when you want to pass current span to another process as parent span.(multi service trace)

## Metrics

For metric you can use this:
```go
meter := otel.Meter("test-meter")
counter, _ := meter.Float64Counter("test_counter")
counter.Add(context.Background(), 1)
```

There is two helper method: `otela.AddFloat64Counter` and `otela.IncrementFloat64Counter` 


## Trace helper

### `GetCarrierFromContext(ctx context.Context) map[string]string`
To extract the carrier from the context, use this method. It's particularly useful when passing a tracer ID between services running in separate binaries, especially in event-driven or messaging-based design patterns. On the client service, you can easily set the tracer ID with this value, pass it to the host, and then use the following function to generate a context with the tracer ID for use in the host service.

### `GetContextFromCarrier(carrier map[string]string) context.Context`
As mentioned above, you can use this method to convert the tracer ID into a context.


## Trace builder

``go
TraceBuilder(packageName, functionName string, options ...TracerOptions) (context.Context, trace.Span)
``
You can use this method for easy integration with the Otel collector, like this:
```go
ctx, span := otela.TraceBuilder("package name", "Function name",
    TracerOptions...),
)
```
Here is a helper function for generating `TraceOption`, such as:
- `WithCarrier(carrier map[string]string) TracerOptions`
- `WithContext(ctx context.Context) TracerOptions`
- `WithTracerOptions(options ...trace.TracerOption) TracerOptions`
- `WithSpanOptions(options ...trace.SpanStartOption) TracerOptions`
- `WithSpanOptionAttributes(attributes ...attribute.KeyValue) TracerOptions`


## Log echo requests

In the delivery layer, you can register the Otel log as shown below:

```go
    s.Router.Use(middleware.RequestLoggerWithConfig(middleware.RequestLoggerConfig{
		LogURI:           true,
		LogStatus:        true,
		LogHost:          true,
		LogRemoteIP:      true,
		LogRequestID:     true,
		LogMethod:        true,
		LogContentLength: true,
		LogResponseSize:  true,
		LogLatency:       true,
		LogError:         true,
		LogProtocol:      true,
		LogValuesFunc:    otela.EchoRequestLoggerLogValuesFunc("httpserver", "Serve"),
	}))
```
It then starts the tracer on the request and injects the trace ID into the context. You can continue to append spans to the tracer as shown below:

```go
package statushandler

import (
	"github.com/ormushq/ormus/adapter/otela"
	"github.com/labstack/echo/v4"
)


    func (h Handler) healthCheck(c echo.Context) error {

        // You can pass newCtx to service for set this span as parent of spans that start in services 
        newCtx, span := otela.TraceBuilder("statushandler", "status",
        otela.WithContext(ctx.Request().Context()),
        )
        defer span.End()
        
        span.AddEvent("Starting status handler")
        // Do something
        span.AddEvent("Ending status handler")
		
        ...
    }
        
```
